---
title: "[WIP]C++ 정리 01"
excerpt: "The Basics"

categories:
  - Computer
tags:
  - Programming
  - Cpp
  - WIP

use_math: true
toc: true 
toc_label: "Table of Contents" 
toc_icon: "cog"
toc_sticky: true 

last_modified_at: 2021-03-15 21:28:00 +0900
---

## Hello, World!
```cpp
// This program outputs the message “Hello, World!” to the monitor

#include "std_lib_facilities.h"

int main(void) // C++ programs start by executing the function main
{
  cout << "Hello, World!\n"; // output “Hello, World!”
    
  return 0;
}
```

## Objects, Types, and Values
* An <i>object</i> is a region of memory with a <i>type</i> that specifies what kind of information can be placed in it.
* A named object is called a <i>variable</i>. 
    * For example, character strings are put into **string** variables and integers are put into **int** variables.
* The representation of a **string** is a bit more complicated than that of an int because a string keeps track of the number of characters it holds.

### Type safety
* using a variable before it has been initialized is not considered type-safe
* Complete type safety is the ideal and therefore the general rule for the language.
* The ideal of type safety is incredibly important when writing code.

### Unsafe conversions
* On a PC the range of **char** values is [–128:127], but only [0:127] can be used portably because not every computer is a PC, and different computers have different ranges for their **char** values, such as [0:255].
* C++11 introduced an initialization notation that outlaws narrowing conversions. For example, we could (and should) rewrite the troublesome examples above using a **{}**-list notation, rather than the **=** notation:

```cpp
double x{2.7};  // OK
int    y{x};    // error: double -> int might narrow

int  a{1000};   // OK
char b{a};      // error: int -> char might narrow

char b1 {1000}; // error: narrowing (assuming 8-bit chars)
char b2 {48};   // OK
```

## Computation
### Objective and tools
* Our job as programmers is to express computations:
    * Correctly
    * Simply
    * Efficiently
* Please note the order of those ideals: it doesn’t matter how fast a program is if it gives the wrong results.

### Expressions
* The most basic building block of programs is an expression. 
* An expression computes a value from a number of operands. 
* The simplest expression is simply a **literal** value, such as 10, 'a', 3.14, or "Norah".
* Overuse of parentheses, as in `(a*b)+(c/d)`, **decreases readability**.
* Don’t write absurdly complicated expressions such as `a*b+c/d*(e–f/g)/h+7` and always try to choose meaningful names.
* const vs. constexpr
    * A **constexpr** symbolic constant must be given a value that **is known at compile time**. For example:
    ```C++
    constexpr int max = 100;
    void use(int n)
    {
      constexpr int c1 = max + 7; // OK: c1 is 107
      constexpr int c2 = n + 7;   // error: we don’t know the value of c2

      // …
    }
    ```

    * To handle cases where the value of a “variable” that is initialized with a value that is not known at compile time but never changes after initialization, C++ offers a second form of constant (a **const**):
    ```C++
    constexpr int max = 100;

    void use(int n)
    {
      constexpr int c1 = max+7; // OK: c1 is 107
      const int     c2 = n+7;   // OK, but don’t try to change the value of c2

      // …

      c2 = 7; // error: c2 is a const
    }
    ```

    * Such “**const** variables” are very common for two reasons:
        * C++98 did not have **constexpr**, so people used **const**.
        * “Variables” that are not constant expressions (their value is not known at compile time) but do not change values after initialization are in themselves widely useful.






*** 

* References: 
    * Bjarne Stroustrup. (2014). *Programming : Principles and Practice Using C++ (Second Edition)*. Addison-Wesley.
